Before we continue with updating we're editing the data we're deleting it.
That's all to make sure however that we don't see the dummy data here initially but that we actually
see a loading spinner and maybe also a message if there is no data to be loaded or an error message.
If we have an error end for dead.
Let's start with the loading spinner on the product or review screen there.
I want to show a loading spinner whilst were waiting for data to arrive for that we first of all need
to know whether we're loading or not we can control that with use state.
So with our internal state in this component.
So there we can add is loading and set is loading and then simply use state here like this and initially
we're not loading so I set the initial state to false.
And now here when we dispatch this so here and use effect I set is loading to true.
Of course but once we're done I want to set it back to faults.
Now the good thing is dispatch here dispatches our fetch products action and therefore this here gives
us a promise actually.
So here I can add then and also catch later for error handling to do something once this is done.
You can always use async await but it's not allowed to use like this.
Here in use a fact that's not simply how use effect should be used.
So if you would want to use use async here you would have to wrap this into a separate function which
you have to create in your effect like load products which is just a dummy wrapper function that looks
like this maybe with set is loading in there as well.
Now here you can add async and now then you can call load products like that right there after simply
a wrapper which is required due to the way use effect works.
It must not return a promise.
It would do so if you use A's in here and therefore using async there is not allowed this on the other
hand is allowed.
So now in here we can use.
I'll wait here to wait for this dispatching to be done which means this will automatically wait for
the promise that's in there so 48 GDP request and thereafter we set is loading to false.
Once this is done.
Now just show a spinner thankfully reactive got one for us the activity indicator which will automatically
look good for ISIS and Android.
So it will automatically get the default platform style.
And now we can render D if we're loading so down there instead of returning the flat list if is loading
is true I will return a different piece of jazz X I'll return a new view here with my activity indicator
in there for that of course you need to have view imported as well so make sure that this is also available
now with that we returned this view with the activity indicator there you can set up the size to be
large and the color to be colors dot primary for example and this of course requires you to have that
color is constant be imported so make sure that is a white label and last but not least now I want to
center does indicators so here we can add a style which we of course could set up with a style sheet
or here quick and dirty flex one justify content center all line items center however actually I will
use of a style sheets here because we'll need that in a different place later too.
So here I will refer to styles let's say centered and import style sheet from React Native and with
that then go down there add my styles object after setting up the navigation options maybe styles with
style sheet dodge create add these centered property in there which has this styling with Flex justify
content line items and now with that we should see a centered activity indicator was for loading.
So if I saved as it does reloads firebase is very fast so you don't see it that long but for a short
amount of time you see that loading spinner here with the different look on ISIS and Android of course
now of course loading is one thing sometimes you all just don't have any data that could be loaded let's
say you know reducer we're reaching out to product dot Jason which is the source where no data can be
fetched and therefore we end up with an empty screen.
Well that's something we can do but it's not the best possible user experience.
So I want to add another if check where to check if is loading is faulted for not loading anymore and
my products here the length there is equal to zero which means we have no products.
In that case I will also return my centred content here but there I simply want to output a text where
I say no products found.
Maybe start adding some and for that of course you need to make sure you import the text component and
you can also assign your fun styles there or create the default text wrapper component which we used
in earlier modules.
For now I'll just have my text like this and this is indeed what we see there for now of course as soon
as I switched his back to the correct you or L where we actually do find data it works now last but
not least you could also have an error let's say here.
I don't have dot Jason there.
Of course that is an error we would typically a white because that's just a typo on our side but unfortunately
firebase servers are relatively robust so to fake that they for example went down or something went
wrong.
I'll just break the U R L in this way which is an invalid U R L and now what we see is an infinite spinner
the reason for data that we actually now don't have a valid response so we have a look at our reduce
our at our action here and we console locked is response data here
we see that asked Is reloads
fetching should happen immediately right.
But we don't get any output there.
We don't see anything be law from this we just get a promised rejection warning at some point of time
so it looks like we're simply getting an error.
And right now we're not handling an error.
Now if you would be using promises without async await you would simply add a catch statement.
Here we are using async await.
So what we do is we wrap this into a try block all that code which we ultimately want to run if everything
succeeds and catch any errors here.
So a try catch block that is where we get a potential error.
And now with that error gotten here we can handle it.
For example send it to our own analytic server or do whatever we want and then maybe also refloat it
of course if all what you do is refilling it you wouldn't have needed to add this try catch block but
typically you might want to do more here send to custom analytics server or anything like that.
As I mentioned.
So now we refloat year are still not better still causes us to have an error.
And in addition to just having try catch around this we should actually also add another check here
before we unpacked response body.
We should all to check if response okay is wrong if that's false.
Okay as a field you have a way lable on this response object and this simply is true if the responses
in the to 100 status code range if it's in a different range for example because you're not authenticated
or anything like that then the fetch API by default would not throw an error.
However I do want to throw an error in that case so that we always end up in the catch block if we have
400 or 500 status code or if we have a network request issue for example if the request can't even leave
the device.
So here and that's fetch API specific to handle 400 and 500 status codes as well which normally would
not cause an error.
I'll also throw a new error here in that case raise say something went wrong.
Of course you could dive into the response body here in that case too and find out what is wrong there
but I will just throw this generic error and now will definitely have an error.
If something goes wrong if we don't get back our data but still we then just reef wrote error here.
But the place where I ultimately want to handle it is my component here.
My screen component because there I then want to show a error message so in there we have our effect.
And just as we could use catch or the catch handler if you use then and catch or async await with try
catch in the action.
We can do it here as well.
So here I want to try this patching this but I want to catch any potential errors we might get.
So here I catch any errors.
This might yield and since I read my error in there that's what I adjusted here right.
Ultimately the error will reach us here.
So now we will ultimately end up in this catch block.
And now to show our error data we can add another state error and set error can name it however you
want.
Initially that's on the find because initially I have no error but then yea I will call set error and
set this to error message for example.
So to the message of this error I'm getting
still of course I want to set loading two faults there after that doesn't change because we definitely
are not loading anymore.
Even if we got an error but now we also have this error state which we can use we can use stat check
it here if we do have an error.
So if data is true I don't even need to continue instead I want to return my centered J as XA content
here but there.
I just want to upload and text where I say an error occurred for example like this if we now do that
you'll see we see a spinner.
But then we see this error.
Text of course this doesn't allow the user to do a lot.
We can now just navigate away and then come back.
But we might want to give the user a way of trying again maybe by adding a button here so here with
button import that we can go there and then here at this button component with the title of try again.
And of course it's solely up to you how you want to let the user handle this.
And there you could add on press handler and now to be able to load again.
I will actually take this load product's function here.
Move it out of the effect and make it a regular function of this component so that I can call it from
inside use effect.
Now however it also needs to be a dependency and they offer it to a wide and infinite loop.
It should be wrapped in use callback let's import use callback here and wrapped is around its function
here.
Where do the dependency.
Dennis my dispatch function.
You can also add set is loading and set error.
But all these functions will never changed for you could also omit them and therefore this will never
be recreated which is good.
But now we can use load products as a dependency here and use effect.
And now since it's not inside of to use affect function anymore we can use load products anywhere else
in this component and the anywhere else part is here.
This button if we pressed as I went to all the trigger load products again and also last but at least
give the button color of collars primary with that looks like I have a error here with my imports Oh
yeah I already had button imported so let's get rid of the second import only imported ones.
And now what you'll get is dead.
This will actually reload eventually throw an error and you can press try again to reload this.
However we always see the error message simply because we never cleared the error.
And if we do have an error we always return this.
We don't even make it to the loading spinner.
So we should make sure that whenever we do load our products here we set the error back to nulls we
reset the error by the way multiple set state calls next to each other will be batch together by react.
So this will not lead to multiple component we render cycles.
It's OK to use it like this.
So now with that if I click try again while we can try again obviously it will never succeed because
are you or ELAs broken but still this is how we could handle this error with that however I'll go back
to my actions and fix that error by correcting this year L again.
And now this should also load our data correctly and display it.